hi my name is Derek Tarnow I've been
playing guitar for 12 years and I teach
and perform in this clip I'm going to
talk about selecting guitar strings the
first thing to decide when you're
selecting attar strings is you know what
guitar you're selecting attar strings
for I got out a couple of different
kinds of guitars here just to show that
you know hey there are different kinds
of guitars and they all need different
strings the one I'm holding is a
classical guitar it needs a nylon
strings a safe bet when you're buying
strings for just about any guitar is d
addario they make you know at least
decent strings to the best strings for
whatever guitar you're you're going to
restring what I have on here now are
actually d'addario Pro Arte classical
guitar strings because it's a classical
guitar over here i have my strut for my
electric guitar on this guitar I like to
just play this the regular d'addario
strings for electric guitars over here I
have a hollow body on this guitar I like
to use a flat loans but that's totally a
preference thing flat long strings of
most guitars like um like your strats or
your acoustic guitars you have round
wound strings on the flat one strings
the rapping or the around the strings is
a flattened to reduce a fret noise but
again on this guitar I just have d
Addario Chrome's which is just their
flatwound series strings on my acoustic
I don't play acoustic very often so i
don't i'm not too picky about strings on
that i think right now I actually have
just Martin strings on it because it's a
Martin guitar that doesn't really matter
you don't have to match your guitar with
the your strings at all in fact it's
usually not a good idea also an
important thing to consider when you're
choosing guitar strings is uh you know
maybe you're you're playing ability if
you're a beginning student you might
want to start with a lighter gauge
string
if you're younger maybe some eights if
you're a little older like 5i older I
mean late middle school early high
school get some 9 gauge strings your
hands can usually handle it also what
kind of style you're playing bluesy
guitar players like to play on a little
heavier string then metal players metal
players like to play on really
light-gauge strings because they get
that a really chriqui shredding sound
that they go for anyway if you have any
questions about guitar strings generally
if you go to a guitar music shop there
will be someone there that will know
what they're talking about enough to to
help you out and help you choose a set
of strings that will get you by also
don't be afraid to experiment try new
strings because that's really the only
way that you're going to find out what
strings you like or don't like and why
and that's an important thing to know